---
slug: release-sb-v0.11
title: Releasing SuperBench v0.11
author: Peng Cheng
author_title: SuperBench Team
author_url: https://github.com/cp5555
author_image_url: https://github.com/cp5555.png
tags: [superbench, announcement, release]
---

We are very happy to announce that **SuperBench 0.11.0 version** is officially released today!

You can install and try superbench by following [Getting Started Tutorial](https://microsoft.github.io/superbenchmark/docs/getting-started/installation).

## SuperBench 0.11.0 Release Notes

### SuperBench Improvements

- Add CUDA 12.4 dockerfile.
- Upgrade nccl version to v2.23.4 and install ucx v1.16.0 in cuda 12.4 dockefile.
- Fix MSCCL build error in CUDA12.4 docker build pipeline.
- Add ROCm6.2 dockerfile.
- Update hpcx link in cuda11.1 dockerfile to fix docker build failure.
- Improve document (Fix metrics name and typos in user tutorial, add BibTeX in README and repo).
- Limit protobuf version to be 3.20.x to fix onnxruntime dependency error.
- Update omegaconf version to 2.3.0 and fix issues caused by omegaconf version update.
- Fix MSCCL build error in CUDA12.4 docker build pipeline.
- Update Docker Exec Command for Persistent HPCX Environment.
- Fix cuda 12.2 dockerfile LD_LIBRARY_PATH issue.
- Use types-setuptools to replace types-pkg_resources.
- Add configuration for NDv5 H100 and AMD MI300x.

### Micro-benchmark Improvements

- Add hipblasLt tuning to dist-inference cpp implementation.
- Add support for NVIDIA L4/L40/L40s GPUs in gemm-flops.
- Upgrade mlc to v3.11.

## Model-benchmark Improvements

- Support FP8 transformer model training in ROCm6.2 dockerfile.

### Result Analysis
- Fix bug of failure test and warning of pandas in data diagnosis.
